---
id: creating-a-plugin
title: 'Marketplace: Creating plugins'
---

# Marketplace: Creating plugins 

## What are plugins

ToolJet’s development has centered on extensibility, allowing developers to utilize plugins that expand their capabilities. Currently, these plugins are limited to connectors, including data source connectors like PostgreSQL, MySQL, Twilio, Stripe, and more. Using JavaScript/TypeScript, developers can develop plugins to enhance ToolJet's functionality and publish these plugins on the ToolJet Marketplace.

This guide will provide step-by-step instructions for creating ToolJet plugins using the `tooljet` CLI. 

The `tooljet` CLI is a user-friendly command-line tool designed to simplify the plugin building process. As part of this guide, we will create a basic plugin for GitHub. 

## Step 1: Creating a New Plugin - GitHub Plugin

The first step is to bootstrap a new plugin for the ToolJet marketplace. The plugin will authenticate users with a GitHub Personal Access Token and include fundamental operations such as fetching user details, repositories, issues, and pull requests.

If you have completed the **[Setup](/docs/contributing-guide/marketplace/marketplace-setup)** guide, you can begin developing the plugin using the `tooljet` CLI. To initiate plugin development, enter the following command in the terminal:
```bash
# create a new plugin
tooljet plugin create github
```

When prompted, enter the **plugin name** and select the **plugin type**, which is api in this case. Additionally, select **yes** when prompted to create a new plugin for the marketplace.

If your plugin is hosted on GitHub, please provide the **repository URL** when prompted. Otherwise, leave it blank.

When a plugin is created using the `ToolJet` CLI, an object is added to the **plugins.json** file in the **`ToolJet/server/src/assets/marketplace/`** directory. This object includes metadata about the plugin, such as its name, description, version, author, and other relevant details.

The plugins.json file serves as a registry of all available plugins for use in ToolJet. When the ToolJet server starts up, it reads the plugins.json file and loads all plugins that are listed in it.

:::info
It is important to note that the plugins.json file should not be manually edited, as it is automatically generated by the `ToolJet CLI`. Making changes to this file can result in issues with the proper functioning of the plugins in the system.
:::

All marketplace plugins are stored in the **`/marketplace`** directory of the ToolJet repository. You can find the GitHub plugin **[here](https://github.com/ToolJet/ToolJet/tree/develop/marketplace/plugins/github)**.

The structure of a typical ToolJet plugin directory appears as follows:
```bash
github/
  package.json
  lib/
    icon.svg
    index.ts
    operations.json
    manifest.json
```

In this structure, the file **manifest.json** contains information about the plugin's name, description, and other details. The file **operations.json** contains metadata about all the operations that the plugin supports. The main file, **index.ts**, creates a QueryService for the plugin, which handles queries, connection testing, caching, and more. The **icon.svg** file serves as the plugin's icon, while **package.json** is automatically generated by the CLI.

:::info
**Why do we need a manifest.json file or a operations.json file?**

The manifest.json file is used by a React component to create a dynamic UI for connection forms. It defines the schema of an API or data source, including its name, type, and any exposed variables, as well as options for authentication and other customizable properties. The properties section specifies the required fields and their types for connecting to the API or data source. By reading the manifest.json file, the React component generates the necessary UI components based on the schema, such as text inputs, dropdowns, checkboxes, and other elements.

On the other hand, the operations.json file contains a schema definition for a specific data source, like Github. It describes the available operations and their parameters that can be used to query the data source. A React component uses this schema to create queries in ToolJet applications, generating a UI that allows users to select the desired operation and provide the required parameters. The component uses the properties defined in the operations.json file to create various UI elements, such as dropdowns and input fields, and handle user interactions to create the final query. Once the user fills in the required parameters, the component uses them to generate a query that can be executed against the data source and return the results to the user.

Overall, *manifest.json* and *operations.json* files are essential for creating dynamic UI components in ToolJet applications. They define the schema for data sources and available operations, which React components then use to generate user-friendly UI elements. By utilizing these files, ToolJet enables users to easily connect to various APIs and data sources, perform queries, and retrieve data in an intuitive and efficient manner.
:::

## Step 2: Defining the manifest.json file

To construct the connection form, it's important to include the necessary options in the manifest.json file. Here's an example of how to do it:
```json
  "properties": {
    "credentials": {
      "label": "Authentication",
      "key": "auth_type",
      "type": "dropdown-component-flip",
      "description": "A single select dropdown to choose credentials",
      "list": [
        {
          "value": "personal_access_token",
          "name": "Use Personal Access Token"
        }
      ]
    },
    "personal_access_token": {
      "token": {
        "label": "Token",
        "key": "personal_token",
        "type": "password",
        "description": "Enter your personal access token",
        "hint": "You can generate a personal access token from your Github account settings."
      }
    }
  }
```
This manifest.json file includes information about authentication options, specifically a dropdown to choose a type of credentials and a field to enter a personal access token. The label, key, type, description, and hint properties are used to define the specific fields and their types required for connecting to the API or data source.

In this particular code, there are two main properties defined: **`credentials`** and **`personal_access_token`**.

The **`credentials`** property specifies the authentication method to be used. It contains several keys:
- **`label`**: a user-friendly label for the authentication method, set to "Authentication"
- **`key`**: a unique identifier for the authentication method, set to "auth_type"
- **`type`**: the type of the authentication method, set to "dropdown-component-flip"
- **`description`**: a description of the authentication method, set to "A single select dropdown to choose credentials"
- **`list`**: an array of objects representing the different authentication methods available. In this case, there is only one method available: a personal access token. The `value` key in the object is set to "personal_access_token" and the `name` key is set to "Use Personal Access Token".

The **`personal_access_token`** property specifies the details of the personal access token authentication method. It contains a `token` key, which specifies the actual personal access token to be used. The `token` key contains several keys:
- **`label`**: a user-friendly label for the personal access token, set to "Token"
- **`key`**: a unique identifier for the personal access token, set to "personal_token"
- **`type`**: the type of the personal access token, set to "password"
- **`description`**: a description of the personal access token, set to "Enter your personal access token"
- **`hint`**: a hint for the personal access token, set to "You can generate a personal access token from your Github account settings."

The available `type` options are:

However, based on the code you provided, the available **`type`** options are:
- **`password`**: used to input a secret value, such as a password or an access token.
- **`dropdown-component-flip`**: used to create a dropdown menu that flips its position relative to the component that triggers it.
- **`text`**: used to input a single line of text.
- **`textarea`**: used to input multiple lines of text.
- **`toggle`**: used to create a simple on/off switch.
- **`react-component-headers`**: used to display headers for React components.
- **`codehinter`**: is a specialized input field used for entering code and has additional functionality, such as resolving JavaScript code within double curly braces`{{}}`.

:::tip
The **manifest.json** file is utilized by the connection modal component, which appears to prompt users to enter their datasource credentials. Meanwhile, the **operations.json** file is used by the query manager when users generate a specific query for a connected datasource. **Both files utilize a similar schema**.
:::

## Step 3: Defining the operations.json file
```json
  "properties": {
    "operation": {
      "label": "Operation",
      "key": "operation",
      "type": "dropdown-component-flip",
      "description": "Single select dropdown for operation",
      "list": [
        {
          "value": "get_user_info",
          "name": "Get user info"
        },
        {
          "value": "get_repo",
          "name": "Get repository"
        },
        {
          "value": "get_repo_issues",
          "name": "Get repository issues"
        },
        {
          "value": "get_repo_pull_requests",
          "name": "Get repository pull requests"
        }
      ]
    },
    "get_user_info": {
      "username": {
        "label": "Username",
        "key": "username",
        "type": "codehinter",
        "lineNumbers": false,
        "description": "Enter username",
        "width": "320px",
        "height": "36px",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins",
        "placeholder": "Enter username"
      }
    },
    "get_repo": {
      "owner": {
        "label": "Owner",
        "key": "owner",
        "type": "codehinter",
        "lineNumbers": false,
        "description": "Enter owner name",
        "width": "320px",
        "height": "36px",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins",
        "placeholder": "developer"
      },
      "repo": {
        "label": "Repository",
        "key": "repo",
        "type": "codehinter",
        "lineNumbers": false,
        "description": "Enter repository name",
        "width": "320px",
        "height": "36px",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins",
        "placeholder": "tooljet"
      }
    },
    "get_repo_issues": {
      "owner": {
        "label": "Owner",
        "key": "owner",
        "type": "codehinter",
        "lineNumbers": false,
        "description": "Enter owner name",
        "width": "320px",
        "height": "36px",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins",
        "placeholder": "developer"
      },
      "repo": {
        "label": "Repository",
        "key": "repo",
        "type": "codehinter",
        "lineNumbers": false,
        "description": "Enter repository name",
        "width": "320px",
        "height": "36px",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins",
        "placeholder": "tooljet"
      },
      "state": {
        "label": "State",
        "key": "state",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins col-4",
        "type": "dropdown",
        "description": "Single select dropdown for choosing state",
        "list": [
          {
            "value": "open",
            "name": "Open"
          },
          {
            "value": "closed",
            "name": "Closed"
          },
          {
            "value": "all",
            "name": "All"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "get_repo_pull_requests": {
      "owner": {
        "label": "Owner",
        "key": "owner",
        "type": "codehinter",
        "lineNumbers": false,
        "description": "Enter owner name",
        "width": "320px",
        "height": "36px",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins",
        "placeholder": "developer"
      },
      "repo": {
        "label": "Repository",
        "key": "repo",
        "type": "codehinter",
        "lineNumbers": false,
        "description": "Enter repository name",
        "width": "320px",
        "height": "36px",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins",
        "placeholder": "tooljet"
      },
      "state": {
        "label": "State",
        "key": "state",
        "type": "dropdown",
        "className": "codehinter-plugins col-4",
        "description": "Single select dropdown for choosing state",
        "list": [
          {
            "value": "open",
            "name": "Open"
          },
          {
            "value": "closed",
            "name": "Closed"
          },
          {
            "value": "all",
            "name": "All"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
```
The operations.json file specifies the available operations that can be executed on the data source. It provides details about the operation type, required fields to execute the operation, and the data type of each field. The label, key, type, description, and hint properties are used to define the specific fields and their types required to establish a connection with the API or data source.

## Step 4: Add the npm package of Gitub to the plugin dependencies

- Change directory to the plugin directory where the npm package needs to be installed and then install the package
  ```bash
  # change directory to the plugin directory and install the npm package
  npm i octokit --workspace=@tooljet-marketplace/github 
  ```

  :::info
  Steps to install npm package to a plugin

  ```bash
  npm i <npm-package-name> --workspace=<plugin-name-in-package-json>
  ```

  The command `npm i <npm-package-name> --workspace=<plugin-name-in-package-json>` is used to install a specific npm package into a particular workspace of a multi-package repository.

  The *--workspace* flag is used to specify the workspace where the package should be installed. In this case, we are installing the package in the *@tooljet-marketplace/github* workspace.
  :::

## Step 5: Implement the query execution logic in index.ts

In index.ts, the query execution logic needs to be implemented for the Github plugin's QueryService. The QueryService is responsible for handling the process of running queries and receives information about the data source, including credentials, configurations, and query parameters.

For the Github data source, the sourceOptions will contain the necessary authentication credentials, like the personal access token, while the queryOptions will include the configurations and parameters specific to the query, like obtaining a list of repositories for a particular user.

Using this information, the QueryService will create and execute API requests against the Github API. The resulting data will be returned to the caller for further processing as needed.

Create a new file **query_operations.ts** in the **plugins/github/src** directory and add the following code to it.
```typescript
import { Octokit } from 'octokit'
import { QueryOptions } from './types'


export async function getUserInfo(octokit: Octokit, options: QueryOptions): Promise<object> {
  const { data } = await octokit.request(
    'GET /users/{username}',
    {
      username: options.username
    }
  );
  return data;
}

export async function getRepo(octokit: Octokit, options: QueryOptions): Promise<object> {
    const { data } = await octokit.request(
        'GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}',
        {
            owner: options.owner,
            repo: options.repo
        }
    );
    return data;
}

export async function getRepoIssues(octokit: Octokit, options: QueryOptions): Promise<object> {
    const { data } = await octokit.request(
        'GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}/issues',
        {
            owner: options.owner,
            repo: options.repo,
            state: options.state || 'all'

        }
    );
    return data;
}

export async function getRepoPullRequests(octokit: Octokit, options: QueryOptions): Promise<object> {
    const { data } = await octokit.request(
        'GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}/pulls',
        {
            owner: options.owner,
            repo: options.repo,
            state: options.state || 'all'
        }
    );
    return data;
}

```


The query_operations.ts file comprises functions that will execute the queries and will be called by the QueryService in index.ts.

The GitHub class has three methods:

- **run**: This method executes a query and is invoked by passing sourceOptions and queryOptions as input, representing the source metadata and query configuration, respectively. The run method utilizes the octokit library to send API requests to the GitHub API and returns the query result in a QueryResult object.

- **testConnection**: When adding a new data source to a ToolJet application, the connection can be tested. The testConnection method is used to test the connection, and it takes in sourceOptions as input, which represents the source metadata. The method tests the connection by trying to fetch the authenticated user and returns a ConnectionTestResult object indicating whether the connection was successful.

  :::note
  Not all data sources may support testing connections. If it's not applicable for your data source, you can disable the test connection feature by adding "customTesting": true to your plugin's manifest.json.
  :::

- **getConnection**: This method is a helper function that returns an authenticated octokit client, which is utilized to send requests to the GitHub API. It takes in sourceOptions as input, representing the source metadata, and returns an authenticated octokit client.


## Delete a plugin
To delete a plugin, enter the following command:

```bash
tooljet plugin delete PLUGIN_NAME
```

The CLI will prompt users to verify if the plugin to be deleted is a marketplace plugin before proceeding with the deletion.

## Publish a plugin
To release a plugin, submit a pull request on ToolJet's GitHub Repository after creating it. The ToolJet team will review the pull request, and if approved, the plugin will be included and published in the next release.