docs/versioned_docs/version-2.9.4/how-to/run-action-from-runjs.md, before:

---
id: run-actions-from-runjs
title: Run Actions from RunJS query
---

# Run `Actions` from RunJS query

Now you can trigger all the `actions` available in ToolJet from within the `RunJS` query. This guide includes the syntax for each action along with the example.

### Run Query

**Syntax:**

```js
queries.queryName.run()
```
or
```js
await actions.runQuery('queryName') 
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we are triggering the two different queries `customers` and `getData` using the two different syntax available for `Run Query` action.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/runquery.png)

</div>

### Set Variable

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.setVariable(variableName, variableValue)
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we are setting the two variables `test` and `test2`. `test` variable includes a numerical value so we haven't wrapped it inside the quotes but the variable `test2` is a string so we have wrapped it in quotes.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/setvariable.png)

</div>

### Unset Variable

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.unSetVariable(variableName)
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we are unsetting the variable `test2` that we created in the previous step.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/unsetvariable.png)

</div>

### Logout

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.logout()
```

**Example:** Triggering `actions.logout()` will log out the current logged in user from the ToolJet and will redirect to sign in page.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/logout.png)

</div>

### Show Modal

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.showModal('modalName')
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, there is a modal on the canvas (renamed it to `formModal` from `modal1`) and we are using RunJS query to show the modal.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/showmodal.png)

</div>

### Close Modal

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.closeModal('modalName')
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we have used RunJS query to close the modal that we showed up in previous step.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/closemodal.png)

</div>

### Set Local Storage

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.setLocalStorage('key','value')
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/setlocalstorage.png)

</div>

### Copy to Clipboard

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.copyToClipboard('contentToCopy')
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/copytoclipboard.png)

</div>

### Generate File

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.generateFile('fileName', 'fileType', 'data')
```

**Example:** `fileName` is the name that you want to give the file(string), `fileType` can be `csv` or `text`, and `data` is the data that you want to store in the file.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/generatefile.png)

</div>

### Go to App

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.goToApp('slug',queryparams) 
```

- `slug` can be found in URL of the released app after the `application/`, or in the `Share` modal
- `queryparams` can be provided like this `[{"key":"value"}, {"key2":"value2"}]`

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/gotoapp1.png)

</div>

### Show Alert

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.showAlert(alert type , message ) // alert types are info, success, warning, and danger

ex:
actions.showAlert('error' , 'This is an error' )
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/showalert.png)

</div>

## Run multiple actions from runjs query

To run multiple actions from a runjs query, you'll have to use **async-await** in the function.

Here is a example code snippet for running the queries and showing alert after specific intervals. Check the complete guide on running queries at specified intervals **[here](/docs/next/how-to/run-query-at-specified-intervals)**.

```js
actions.setVariable('interval',setInterval(countdown, 5000));
async function countdown(){
  await queries.restapi1.run()
  await queries.restapi2.run()
  await actions.showAlert('info','This is an information')
}
```

Commit message:

[docs] updated generate file doc and how-to for generate file for text type

docs/versioned_docs/version-2.9.4/how-to/run-action-from-runjs.md, after:

---
id: run-actions-from-runjs
title: Run Actions from RunJS query
---

# Run `Actions` from RunJS query

Now you can trigger all the `actions` available in ToolJet from within the `RunJS` query. This guide includes the syntax for each action along with the example.

### Run Query

**Syntax:**

```js
queries.queryName.run()
```
or
```js
await actions.runQuery('queryName') 
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we are triggering the two different queries `customers` and `getData` using the two different syntax available for `Run Query` action.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/runquery.png)

</div>

### Set Variable

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.setVariable(variableName, variableValue)
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we are setting the two variables `test` and `test2`. `test` variable includes a numerical value so we haven't wrapped it inside the quotes but the variable `test2` is a string so we have wrapped it in quotes.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/setvariable.png)

</div>

### Unset Variable

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.unSetVariable(variableName)
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we are unsetting the variable `test2` that we created in the previous step.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/unsetvariable.png)

</div>

### Logout

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.logout()
```

**Example:** Triggering `actions.logout()` will log out the current logged in user from the ToolJet and will redirect to sign in page.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/logout.png)

</div>

### Show Modal

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.showModal('modalName')
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, there is a modal on the canvas (renamed it to `formModal` from `modal1`) and we are using RunJS query to show the modal.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/showmodal.png)

</div>

### Close Modal

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.closeModal('modalName')
```

**Example:** In the screenshot below, we have used RunJS query to close the modal that we showed up in previous step.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/closemodal.png)

</div>

### Set Local Storage

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.setLocalStorage('key','value')
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/setlocalstorage.png)

</div>

### Copy to Clipboard

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.copyToClipboard('contentToCopy')
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/copytoclipboard.png)

</div>

### Generate File

**Syntax:**

```js
actions.generateFile('fileName', 'fileType', 'data')
```
Example for generating CSV file:
```js
actions.generateFile('csvfile1', 'csv', '{{components.table1.currentPageData}}') // generate a csv file named csvfile1 with the data from the current page of table
```
Example for generating Text file:
```js
actions.generateFile('abc', 'textfile1', '{{JSON.stringify(components.table1.currentPageData)}}') // generate a text file named textfile1 with the data from the current page of table
```

**Example:** `fileName` is the name that you want to give the file(string), `fileType` can be `csv` or `text`, and `data` is the data that you want to store in the file.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/generatefile.png)

</div>

### Go to App

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.goToApp('slug',queryparams) 
```

- `slug` can be found in URL of the released app after the `application/`, or in the `Share` modal
- `queryparams` can be provided like this `[{"key":"value"}, {"key2":"value2"}]`

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/gotoapp1.png)

</div>

### Show Alert

**Syntax:**

```javascript
actions.showAlert(alert type , message ) // alert types are info, success, warning, and danger

ex:
actions.showAlert('error' , 'This is an error' )
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

![ToolJet - How To - Run Actions from RunJS query](/img/how-to/run-actions-from-runjs/showalert.png)

</div>

## Run multiple actions from runjs query

To run multiple actions from a runjs query, you'll have to use **async-await** in the function.

Here is a example code snippet for running the queries and showing alert after specific intervals. Check the complete guide on running queries at specified intervals **[here](/docs/next/how-to/run-query-at-specified-intervals)**.

```js
actions.setVariable('interval',setInterval(countdown, 5000));
async function countdown(){
  await queries.restapi1.run()
  await queries.restapi2.run()
  await actions.showAlert('info','This is an information')
}
```
