docs/versioned_docs/version-2.18.0/data-sources/postgresql.md, before:

---
id: postgresql
title: PostgreSQL
---

ToolJet has the capability to connect to PostgreSQL databases for data retrieval and modification.

## Establishing a Connection

To establish a connection with the PostgreSQL global datasource, you can take either of the following steps: click on the "Add new global datasource" button in the query panel, or access the [Global Datasources](/docs/data-sources/overview) page through the ToolJet dashboard.

ToolJet requires the following information to connect to your PostgreSQL database:

- **Host**
- **Port**
- **SSL**
- **Database Name**
- **Username**
- **Password**
- **Connection Options**
- **SSL Certificate**

We recommend creating a new PostgreSQL database user to have control over ToolJet's access levels.

:::caution
Ensure that the host/IP of the database is accessible from your VPC in case you are using self-hosted ToolJet. If you are using ToolJet cloud, please whitelist our IP.
:::

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/pgconnection.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

Click the **Test connection** button to verify the correctness of the credentials and the accessibility of the database to ToolJet server. Click the **Save** button to save the data source.

## Querying PostgreSQL

Click on `+Add` button on the query panel and select the PostgreSQL from the global datasources. 

PostgreSQL query editor has two modes, **SQL** & **GUI**. **[SQL mode](/docs/data-sources/postgresql#sql-mode)** can be used to write raw SQL queries and **[GUI mode](/docs/data-sources/postgresql#gui-mode)** can be used to query your PostgreSQL database without writing queries.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/newquery.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

#### SQL Mode

To execute SQL queries, select the SQL mode from the dropdown and enter your query in the editor. Click the `Run` button to execute the query.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/sql1.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

#### GUI Mode

Choose the GUI mode from the dropdown and select the operation **Bulk update using primary key**. Provide the **Table** name and the **Primary key column** name. Then, in the editor, input the **records** as an array of objects.

Here is an example of records for a bulk update using the provided format:

```json
[
  {
    "customer_id": 1,
    "country": "India"
  },
  {
    "customer_id": 2,
    "country": "USA"
  }
]
```

Please note that the records should be enclosed within square brackets `[]`, and each record should be represented as an object with key-value pairs.

Click the `Run` button to execute the query.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/gui1.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

:::tip
- You can apply transformations to the query results. Refer to our transformations documentation for more details: **[link](/docs/tutorial/transformations)**
- Check out this how-to guide on **[bulk updating multiple rows](/docs/how-to/bulk-update-multiple-rows)** from a table component.
:::

Commit message:

fix: Changed the 'Global data source' to 'data source' in the required docs

docs/versioned_docs/version-2.18.0/data-sources/postgresql.md, after:

---
id: postgresql
title: PostgreSQL
---

ToolJet has the capability to connect to PostgreSQL databases for data retrieval and modification.

## Establishing a Connection

To establish a connection with the PostgreSQL data source, you can take either of the following steps: click on the "Add new data source" button in the query panel, or access the [Data sources](/docs/data-sources/overview) page through the ToolJet dashboard.

ToolJet requires the following information to connect to your PostgreSQL database:

- **Host**
- **Port**
- **SSL**
- **Database Name**
- **Username**
- **Password**
- **Connection Options**
- **SSL Certificate**

We recommend creating a new PostgreSQL database user to have control over ToolJet's access levels.

:::caution
Ensure that the host/IP of the database is accessible from your VPC in case you are using self-hosted ToolJet. If you are using ToolJet cloud, please whitelist our IP.
:::

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/pgconnection.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

Click the **Test connection** button to verify the correctness of the credentials and the accessibility of the database to ToolJet server. Click the **Save** button to save the data source.

## Querying PostgreSQL

Click on `+Add` button on the query panel and select the PostgreSQL from the data sources. 

PostgreSQL query editor has two modes, **SQL** & **GUI**. **[SQL mode](/docs/data-sources/postgresql#sql-mode)** can be used to write raw SQL queries and **[GUI mode](/docs/data-sources/postgresql#gui-mode)** can be used to query your PostgreSQL database without writing queries.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/newquery.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

#### SQL Mode

To execute SQL queries, select the SQL mode from the dropdown and enter your query in the editor. Click the `Run` button to execute the query.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/sql1.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

#### GUI Mode

Choose the GUI mode from the dropdown and select the operation **Bulk update using primary key**. Provide the **Table** name and the **Primary key column** name. Then, in the editor, input the **records** as an array of objects.

Here is an example of records for a bulk update using the provided format:

```json
[
  {
    "customer_id": 1,
    "country": "India"
  },
  {
    "customer_id": 2,
    "country": "USA"
  }
]
```

Please note that the records should be enclosed within square brackets `[]`, and each record should be represented as an object with key-value pairs.

Click the `Run` button to execute the query.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/postgresql/gui1.png" alt="PG connection"/>

</div>

:::tip
- You can apply transformations to the query results. Refer to our transformations documentation for more details: **[link](/docs/tutorial/transformations)**
- Check out this how-to guide on **[bulk updating multiple rows](/docs/how-to/bulk-update-multiple-rows)** from a table component.
:::
