docs/docs/widgets/file-picker.md, before:

---
id: file-picker
title: Filepicker
---
# Filepicker

Filepicker widget allows the user to drag and drop files or upload files by browsing the filesystem and selecting one or more files in a directory.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/picker.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

:::info
 File types must be a valid [MIME](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) type according to input element specification or a valid file extension.

 To accept any/all file type(s), set `Accept file types` to an empty value.
:::

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/file-type.gif" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

:::tip
[MIME](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) type determination is not reliable across platforms. CSV files, for example, are reported as text/plain under macOS but as application/vnd.ms-excel under Windows.
:::

## Events

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/events.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### On file selected

On file selected event is triggered when one or more files are selected by the selector dialogue box.

### On file loaded

On file loaded event is triggered when a file is loaded in the browser.

### On file deselected

On file selected event can be triggered when one or more files are removed from the picker.

:::info
Check [Action Reference](/docs/category/actions-reference) docs to get the detailed information about all the **Actions**.
:::

## Properties

### Instruction Text

Instruction text can be set to give information on the file picker.

### Use Drop zone

Creates a drag & drop zone. Files can be dragged and dropped to the "drag & drop" zone.

### Use File Picker

On clicking it invokes the default OS file prompt.

### Pick multiple files 

Allows drag and drop (or selection from the file dialog) of multiple files. `Pick multiple files` is disabled by default.

### Max file count

The maximum accepted number of files The default value is `2`.

### Accept file types

By providing types, you can make the dropzone accept specific file types and reject the others.

### Max size limit

Maximum file size (in bytes).

### Min size limit

Minimum file size (in bytes).

:::tip
Files can be accepted or rejected based on the file types, maximum file count, maximum file size (in bytes) and minimum file size (in bytes).
If `Pick multiple files` is set to false and additional files are dropped, all files besides the first will be rejected. 
Any file that does not have a size in the range of `Max size limit` and `Min size limit` will be rejected.
:::

## Options

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/options.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### Parse content

Parse the selected files, supports **CSV**, **xls**, and **xlsx** files.

### File type

If **Parse content** is enabled, options to auto-detect files and parse content or parse selected file types.

:::info
- If **Parse content** option is toggled off, **File Type** option will not be available.
- If the **Parse content** option is toggled on, it only parses the next file that is selected, not the already selected one.
:::

### General
#### Tooltip

A Tooltip is often used to specify extra information about something when the user hovers the mouse pointer over the widget.

Under the <b>General</b> accordion, you can set the value in the string format. Now hovering over the widget will display the string as the tooltip.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/tooltip.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

## Layout

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/layout.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### Show on desktop

Toggle on or off to display the widget in desktop view. You can programmatically determine the value by clicking on `Fx` to set the value `{{true}}` or `{{false}}`.
### Show on mobile

Toggle on or off to display the widget in mobile view. You can programmatically determine the value by clicking on `Fx` to set the value `{{true}}` or `{{false}}`.

## Styles

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/styles.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### Visibility

This is to control the visibility of the widget. If `{{false}}` the widget will not visible after the app is deployed. It can only have boolean values i.e. either `{{true}}` or `{{false}}`. By default, it's set to `{{true}}`.

### Disable

This property only accepts boolean values. If set to `{{true}}`, the widget will be locked and becomes non-functional. By default, its value is set to `{{false}}`.

### Border Radius

Use this property to modify the border radius of the filepicker widget. The field expects only numerical value from `1` to `100`, default is `0`.

:::info
Any property having `Fx` button next to its field can be **programmatically configured**.
:::

## Exposed Variables

| Variables      | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| file | This variable holds the array of objects where each object represents the file loaded on the file picker component. Each object has the following keys: **name**, **type**, **content**, **dataURL**, **base64Data**, **parsedData**, **filePath**. The values can be accesed using `{{components.filepicker1.file[0].base64Data}}` |

## Component specific actions (CSA)

| Actions | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| clearFiles() | You can clear the selected files on the filepicker component via a component-specific action within any event handler. Additionally, you have the option to employ a RunJS query to execute component-specific actions such as `await components.filepicker1.clearFiles()` |

Commit message:

link load pdf/images guide to related pages

docs/docs/widgets/file-picker.md, after:

---
id: file-picker
title: Filepicker
---
# Filepicker

Filepicker widget allows the user to drag and drop files or upload files by browsing the filesystem and selecting one or more files in a directory.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/picker.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

:::info
 File types must be a valid [MIME](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) type according to input element specification or a valid file extension.

 To accept any/all file type(s), set `Accept file types` to an empty value.
:::

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/file-type.gif" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

:::tip
[MIME](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types) type determination is not reliable across platforms. CSV files, for example, are reported as text/plain under macOS but as application/vnd.ms-excel under Windows.
:::

## Events

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/events.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### On file selected

On file selected event is triggered when one or more files are selected by the selector dialogue box.

### On file loaded

On file loaded event is triggered when a file is loaded in the browser.

### On file deselected

On file selected event can be triggered when one or more files are removed from the picker.

:::info
Checkout **[this](/docs/how-to/loading-image-pdf-from-db)** guide to learn how to refer or display images/PDFs using base64 string
:::

## Properties

### Instruction Text

Instruction text can be set to give information on the file picker.

### Use Drop zone

Creates a drag & drop zone. Files can be dragged and dropped to the "drag & drop" zone.

### Use File Picker

On clicking it invokes the default OS file prompt.

### Pick multiple files 

Allows drag and drop (or selection from the file dialog) of multiple files. `Pick multiple files` is disabled by default.

### Max file count

The maximum accepted number of files The default value is `2`.

### Accept file types

By providing types, you can make the dropzone accept specific file types and reject the others.

### Max size limit

Maximum file size (in bytes).

### Min size limit

Minimum file size (in bytes).

:::tip
Files can be accepted or rejected based on the file types, maximum file count, maximum file size (in bytes) and minimum file size (in bytes).
If `Pick multiple files` is set to false and additional files are dropped, all files besides the first will be rejected. 
Any file that does not have a size in the range of `Max size limit` and `Min size limit` will be rejected.
:::

## Options

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/options.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### Parse content

Parse the selected files, supports **CSV**, **xls**, and **xlsx** files.

### File type

If **Parse content** is enabled, options to auto-detect files and parse content or parse selected file types.

:::info
- If **Parse content** option is toggled off, **File Type** option will not be available.
- If the **Parse content** option is toggled on, it only parses the next file that is selected, not the already selected one.
:::

### General
#### Tooltip

A Tooltip is often used to specify extra information about something when the user hovers the mouse pointer over the widget.

Under the <b>General</b> accordion, you can set the value in the string format. Now hovering over the widget will display the string as the tooltip.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/tooltip.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

## Layout

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/layout.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### Show on desktop

Toggle on or off to display the widget in desktop view. You can programmatically determine the value by clicking on `Fx` to set the value `{{true}}` or `{{false}}`.
### Show on mobile

Toggle on or off to display the widget in mobile view. You can programmatically determine the value by clicking on `Fx` to set the value `{{true}}` or `{{false}}`.

## Styles

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/widgets/filepicker/styles.png" alt="ToolJet - Widget Reference - File Picker" />

</div>

### Visibility

This is to control the visibility of the widget. If `{{false}}` the widget will not visible after the app is deployed. It can only have boolean values i.e. either `{{true}}` or `{{false}}`. By default, it's set to `{{true}}`.

### Disable

This property only accepts boolean values. If set to `{{true}}`, the widget will be locked and becomes non-functional. By default, its value is set to `{{false}}`.

### Border Radius

Use this property to modify the border radius of the filepicker widget. The field expects only numerical value from `1` to `100`, default is `0`.

:::info
Any property having `Fx` button next to its field can be **programmatically configured**.
:::

## Exposed Variables

| Variables      | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| file | This variable holds the array of objects where each object represents the file loaded on the file picker component. Each object has the following keys: **name**, **type**, **content**, **dataURL**, **base64Data**, **parsedData**, **filePath**. The values can be accesed using `{{components.filepicker1.file[0].base64Data}}` |

## Component specific actions (CSA)

| Actions | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| clearFiles() | You can clear the selected files on the filepicker component via a component-specific action within any event handler. Additionally, you have the option to employ a RunJS query to execute component-specific actions such as `await components.filepicker1.clearFiles()` |
