docs/docs/deployment/env-vars.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Environment variables

Both the ToolJet server and client requires some environment variables to start running.

## ToolJet server

#### ToolJet host ( required )

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| TOOLJET_HOST | the public URL of ToolJet client ( eg: https://app.tooljet.io ) |



#### Database configuration ( required )

ToolJet server uses PostgreSQL as the database.

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| PG_HOST      | postgres database host |
| PG_DB      | name of the database       |
| PG_USER      | username |
| PG_PASS      | password       |

#### Lockbox configuration ( required )
ToolJet server uses lockbox to encrypt datasource credentials. You should set the environment variable `LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY` with a 32 byte hexadecimal string.


#### Application Secret ( required )
ToolJet server uses a secure 64 byte hexadecimal string to encrypt session cookies. You should set the environment variable `SECRET_KEY_BASE`.


:::tip
If you have `openssl` installed, you can run the following commands to generate the the value for `LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY` and `SECRET_KEY_BASE`.

For `LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY` use `openssl rand -hex 32`
For `SECRET_KEY_BASE` use `openssl rand -hex 64`
:::


#### Disabling signups ( optional )

If want to restrict the signups and allow new users only by invitations, set the environment variable `DISABLE_SIGNUPS` to `true`.

:::tip
You will still be able to see the signup page but won't be able to successfully submit the form.
:::


#### SMTP configuration ( optional )

ToolJet uses SMTP services to send emails ( Eg: invitation email when you add new users to your organization ).

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL      | from email for the emailed fired by ToolJet  |
| SMTP_USERNAME      | username  |
| SMTP_PASSWORD      | password  |
| SMTP_DOMAIN      | domain   |
| SMTP_ADDRESS      | address  |

#### Slack configuration ( optional )

If your ToolJet installation requires Slack as a datasource, you need to create a Slack app and set the following environment variables:

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| SLACK_CLIENT_ID      | client id of the slack app |
| SLACK_CLIENT_SECRET      | client secret of the slack app |

#### Google OAuth ( optional )

If your ToolJet installation needs access to datasources such as Google sheets, you need to create OAuth credentials from Google Cloud Console.

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID      | client id |
| GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET      | client secret |

## ToolJet client

#### Server URL ( required )

| variable | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| TOOLJET_SERVER_URL | the URL of ToolJet server ( eg: https://server.tooljet.io ) |

#### Google maps configuration ( optional )

If your ToolJet installation requires `Maps` widget, you need to create an API key for Google Maps API.

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY | Google maps API key |

Commit message:

Add documentation for SERVE_CLIENT env var

docs/docs/deployment/env-vars.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Environment variables

Both the ToolJet server and client requires some environment variables to start running.

## ToolJet server

#### ToolJet host ( required )

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| TOOLJET_HOST | the public URL of ToolJet client ( eg: https://app.tooljet.io ) |



#### Database configuration ( required )

ToolJet server uses PostgreSQL as the database.

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| PG_HOST      | postgres database host |
| PG_DB      | name of the database       |
| PG_USER      | username |
| PG_PASS      | password       |

#### Lockbox configuration ( required )
ToolJet server uses lockbox to encrypt datasource credentials. You should set the environment variable `LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY` with a 32 byte hexadecimal string.


#### Application Secret ( required )
ToolJet server uses a secure 64 byte hexadecimal string to encrypt session cookies. You should set the environment variable `SECRET_KEY_BASE`.


:::tip
If you have `openssl` installed, you can run the following commands to generate the the value for `LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY` and `SECRET_KEY_BASE`.

For `LOCKBOX_MASTER_KEY` use `openssl rand -hex 32`
For `SECRET_KEY_BASE` use `openssl rand -hex 64`
:::


#### Disabling signups ( optional )

If want to restrict the signups and allow new users only by invitations, set the environment variable `DISABLE_SIGNUPS` to `true`.

:::tip
You will still be able to see the signup page but won't be able to successfully submit the form.
:::

#### Serve client as a server end-point ( optional )

By default, the `SERVE_CLIENT` variable will be set to `false` and the server won't serve the client at its `/`  end-point.
You can set `SERVE_CLIENT` to `true` and the server will attempt to serve the client at its root end-point (`/`).

#### SMTP configuration ( optional )

ToolJet uses SMTP services to send emails ( Eg: invitation email when you add new users to your organization ).

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL      | from email for the emailed fired by ToolJet  |
| SMTP_USERNAME      | username  |
| SMTP_PASSWORD      | password  |
| SMTP_DOMAIN      | domain   |
| SMTP_ADDRESS      | address  |

#### Slack configuration ( optional )

If your ToolJet installation requires Slack as a datasource, you need to create a Slack app and set the following environment variables:

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| SLACK_CLIENT_ID      | client id of the slack app |
| SLACK_CLIENT_SECRET      | client secret of the slack app |

#### Google OAuth ( optional )

If your ToolJet installation needs access to datasources such as Google sheets, you need to create OAuth credentials from Google Cloud Console.

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID      | client id |
| GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET      | client secret |

## ToolJet client

#### Server URL ( required )

| variable | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| TOOLJET_SERVER_URL | the URL of ToolJet server ( eg: https://server.tooljet.io ) |

#### Google maps configuration ( optional )

If your ToolJet installation requires `Maps` widget, you need to create an API key for Google Maps API.

| variable      | description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY | Google maps API key |
