docs/docs/data-sources/graphql.md, before:

---
id: graphql
title: GraphQL
---

# GraphQL

ToolJet can connect to GraphQL endpoints to execute queries and mutations.

## Connection

To add a new GraphQL datasource, click the `+` button on  data sources panel at the bottom-left corner of the app builder and then select GraphQL from the modal that pops up.

ToolJet requires the following to connect to a GraphQL datasource:

- **URL of the GraphQL endpoint**

The following optional parameters are also supported:

   | Type         | Description |
   | -----------  | ----------- |
   | URL params   | Additional query string parameters|
   | headers      | Any headers the GraphQL source requires|

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/graphql/graphql-ds.png" alt="ToolJet - Data source - GraphQl"/>

</div>

Click on the **Save** button to save the data source.

## Querying GraphQL

Click on `+` button of the query manager at the bottom panel of the editor and select the GraphQL endpoint added in the previous step as the  data source.

### Required Parameters:
- **Query**

### Optional Parameters
- **Variable**
- **Headers**

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/graphql/headers.png" alt="ToolJet - Data source - GraphQl"/>

</div>


Click on the 'Create' button to create the query or Click on the `Run` button to create and trigger the query.

:::tip
Query results can be transformed using transformations. Read our transformations documentation to see how: [link](/docs/tutorial/transformations)
:::

Commit message:

[docs]graphql authentication type udpate

docs/docs/data-sources/graphql.md, after:

---
id: graphql
title: GraphQL
---

ToolJet can establish connections with GraphQL endpoints, enabling the execution of queries and mutations.

## Connection

To establish a connection with the GraphQL global datasource, you can either click on the **Add new global datasource** button located on the query panel or navigate to the **[Global Datasources](/docs/data-sources/overview)** page through the ToolJet dashboard.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/graphql/graphgds.gif" alt="ToolJet - Data source - REST API" />

</div>

ToolJet requires the following to connect to a GraphQL datasource:

- **URL**: URL of the GraphQL endpoint
- **Headers**: Any headers the GraphQL source requires
- **URL parameters**: Additional query string parameters
- __Authentication Type__: The method of authentication to use with GraphQL requests. Supported Types: None, Basic, Bearer, and OAuth 2.0
  - **Basic**: Requires Username and Password
  - **Bearer**: Requires a token, typically a JSON Web Token (JWT), to grant access
  - **OAuth 2.0**: The OAuth 2.0 protocol mandates the provision of the following parameters: access token URL, access token URL custom headers, client ID, client secret, scopes, custom query parameters, authorization URL, custom authentication parameters, and client authentication.

## Querying GraphQL

Click on **`+Add`** button of the query manager at the bottom panel of the editor and select the GraphQL global datasource added in previous step.

### Required Parameters:
- **Query**

### Optional Parameters
- **Variable**
- **Headers**

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img className="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/graphql/headers.png" alt="ToolJet - Data source - GraphQl"/>

</div>


Click on the **Create** button to create the query or Click on the **Run** button to create and trigger the query.

:::tip
Query results can be transformed using transformations. Read our transformations documentation to see how: [link](/docs/tutorial/transformations)
:::
