docs/versioned_docs/version-2.19.0/data-sources/mailgun.md, before:

---
id: mailgun
title: Mailgun
---

# Mailgun

ToolJet can connect to your Mailgun account to send emails.

<img class="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/mailgun/mailgun-datasource.png" alt="ToolJet - Data source - Mailgun" height="420" />

:::info
The Mailgun API Datasource supports for interaction with the mail endpoint of the [Mailgun API](https://documentation.mailgun.com/en/latest/api-intro.html#authentication-1).
:::

## Connection

To add a new Mailgun API datasource, click the **Datasource manager** icon on the left-sidebar of the app builder and click on the `Add datasource` button, then select Mailgun API from the modal that pops up.

Enter your **Mailgun API key** in the "API key" field.

:::tip
Mailgun API key is required to create an Mailgun datasource on ToolJet. You can generate API key by visiting [Mailgun account page](https://app.mailgun.com/app/account/security/api_keys).
:::

Click on the 'Save' button to save the data source.

## Supported operations

1.  Email service

### Email service

Required parameters:

- Send email to
- Send email from
- Subject
- Body as text

Optional parameters:

- Body as HTML

<img class="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/MailGun/mailgun_query_body.png" alt="ToolJet - Query Mailgun" height="420"/>

:::info
**Send mail to** - accepts a single email id. 
For example:
`{{"dev@tooljet.io"}}`.

**Send mail from** - accepts a string.
For example: `admin@tooljet.io`
:::

:::tip
**Send a single email to multiple recipients** - The `Send mail to` field can contain an array of recipients, which will send a single email with all of the recipients in the field.

**Send multiple individual emails to multiple recipients** - set <b>Multiple recipients</b> field to `{{true}}` and the `Send mail to` field will be split into multiple emails and send to each recipient.
:::

:::note
NOTE: Query should be saved before running.
:::

Commit message:

Updated MailGun data source reference

docs/versioned_docs/version-2.19.0/data-sources/mailgun.md, after:

---
id: mailgun
title: Mailgun
---

# Mailgun

ToolJet can connect to your Mailgun account to send emails.

<img class="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/mailgun/mailgun-datasource.png" alt="ToolJet - Data source - Mailgun" height="420" />

:::info
The Mailgun API Datasource supports for interaction with the mail endpoint of the [Mailgun API](https://documentation.mailgun.com/en/latest/api-intro.html#authentication-1).
:::

## Connection

To establish a connection with the MailGun data source, click on the `+Add new data source` button located on the query panel or navigate to the [Data Sources](https://docs.tooljet.com/docs/data-sources/overview) page from the ToolJet dashboard.

Enter your **Mailgun API key** in the "API key" field.

:::tip
Mailgun API key is required to create an Mailgun datasource on ToolJet. You can generate API key by visiting [Mailgun account page](https://app.mailgun.com/app/account/security/api_keys).
:::

Click on the 'Save' button to save the data source.

## Supported operations

1.  Email service

### Email service

Required parameters:

- Send email to
- Send email from
- Subject
- Body as text

Optional parameters:

- Body as HTML

<img class="screenshot-full" src="/img/datasource-reference/MailGun/mailgun_query_body.png" alt="ToolJet - Query Mailgun" height="420"/>

:::info
**Send mail to** - accepts a single email id.
For example:
`{{"dev@tooljet.io"}}`.

**Send mail from** - accepts a string.
For example: `admin@tooljet.io`
:::

:::tip
**Send a single email to multiple recipients** - The `Send mail to` field can contain an array of recipients, which will send a single email with all of the recipients in the field.

**Send multiple individual emails to multiple recipients** - set <b>Multiple recipients</b> field to `{{true}}` and the `Send mail to` field will be split into multiple emails and send to each recipient.
:::
