---
id: create-your-first-workflow
title: Create Your First Workflow
---

This guide will walk you through creating your first workflow in ToolJet. You'll learn how to use the Workflow builder to create a simple automated process that fetches data from a database, filters it, and sends notifications based on certain conditions.

## Accessing the Workflow Builder

1. Log in to your ToolJet account.
2. From the main dashboard, click on the **Workflows** icon in the left sidebar.
3. Click the **Create New Workflow** button to create a new workflow. Rename it to *sendEventNotification*.

## Understanding the Interface

Once you're in the Workflow builder, you'll see several key areas:

- **Canvas**: The main workspace where you design and visualize your workflow.
- **Node Palette**: Appears when you click and drag an outgoing arrow from a node. It displays available data sources and nodes you can add to your workflow.
- **Configuration Panel**: Located on the right side, this panel opens when you select a node, allowing you to customize its properties and settings.
- **Toolbar**: Positioned at the top of the interface, containing essential actions such as "Run," "Save," and other workflow management options.
- **Logs Panel**: Situated at the bottom of the screen, this panel shows:
 - Input data received by a node
 - Output generated by a node
 - Execution details and status updates

## Creating Your First Workflow

Let's create a simple workflow that fetches data from a ToolJetDB table, filters it, and sends an SMS using Twilio if certain conditions are met.

### Step 1: Add a Database Query Node

You'll start by fetching employee data from a ToolJetDB table.

1. You'll see a **Start** node already on the canvas. This is the entry point of your workflow.
2. Create an outgoing node from the **Start** node, and select the **ToolJetDB** node. Rename the node to *getEmployees*.
3. Select Table name as employees and Operation as List view.

### Step 2: Transform Data Using RunJS Node

Next, you'll filter the employee data to include only those from California.

1. Create an outgoing node from the **Start** node, and select the **RunJS** node. Rename it to *filterEmployeeList*.
2. Enter the below code to filter out employees who are from California.

```js
return getEmployees.data.filter(employee =>
  employee.location === "California")
 ```

 ### Step 3: Send Notifications

Next, you'll implement a loop to send SMS notifications to the filtered employees. The Loop node allows you to iterate through an array and perform an operation on each element.

1. Create an outgoing node from the **filterEmployeeList** node, and select the **Loop** node. Rename it to *sendSMS*.
2. Under Looped function, select **Twilio** as the data source. Configure the Operation as Send SMS, enter `{{value.number}}` in the To Number field.
3. Under the Body field, enter the below message:

```js
Hey {{value.name}},
Here's the link with all the details for today's ToolJet conference in California.
https://tooljet.com/events/{{value.location}}
```

### Step 4: Configure the Output

Finally, you'll set up conditions to handle the success or failure of the SMS sending process.

1. Create a new outgoing **If condition** node from the *sendSMS* node.
2. Enter the below code in the input field:
`sendSMS.status === "ok" ? true : false`
3. Create an outgoing **Response** node from the green arrow to configure the result when the **If condition** node returns true. 
4. Enter the below code to show the output as success when the SMS is successfully sent:
`return ({output: "success"})`
5. Similarly, create an outgoing **Response** node from the red arrow to configure the result when the **If condition** node returns false. Enter the below code:
`return ({output: "failure"})`

Now click on the **Run** button on the top-right to execute the workflow. The logs panel will expand and will give you an overview of all the nodes executed in this workflow. 

The Input section of the log will display all the incoming data to a node. The Output section will display the data that is transferred to the next node while Logs will display the sequence of execution, and success and error messages. 

This workflow fetches employee data from a ToolJetDB, filters it to include only employees from California, and sends them personalized SMS notifications about a conference. It then handles the success or failure of the SMS sending process, providing appropriate responses for each outcome. 

